Table of Contents
-----------------
1. Overview
2. Expanding ACE archives
3. Preferences
4. Expand options
5. Listing and testing
6. Keyboard shortcuts


Overview
--------
This document contains detailed descriptions about AceExpander's features.

- the first section "Expanding ACE archives" is a walk-through
  of what you can possibly do with AceExpander if you wish to expand
  ACE archives.
- the next section "Preferences" discusses some important or
  not-so-obvious preferences
- the section "Expand options" explains the influence of the items in the
  "Options" menu on the expand process
- the last section "Listing and testing" shows you what else you can
  do with ACE archives besides expanding
- a listing of the application's keyboard shortcuts concludes this document


Expanding ACE archives
----------------------
When you launch AceExpander the first time after you have installed it
on your system, it displays a big main window with an empty table that
waits to be filled with ACE archive files. You can either put files
into the table by selecting the File-Open command, or by dragging files
from the Finder onto the table.

Each file in the table is displayed with its icon, its full path name,
and its state. The state expresses what AceExpander has done so far with
the archive. When a file is added to the table its state is "Queued", i.e.
AceExpander will try to expand the archive when you have selected it
and click on the "Expand selected" button.

If you have put several files into the table you can select them all and
click on the "Expand selected" button to let AceExpander process one
archive after the other. While expansion is in progress, a spinning
progress indicator becomes visible and the "Cancel" button becomes active.
The archive that is currently being expanded is marked with the state
"Processing". If it could be expanded successfully, it is marked with the
state "Success" and the next archive is being processed. If something
went wrong, the archive is marked with the state "Failure", but AceExpander
still proceeds expanding the next archive.

If you click on the "Cancel" button, AceExpander stops working as soon as
possible. Usually, the archive that was being processed when you clicked
on "Cancel" is marked with the state "Aborted". You will have to check
in the Finder whether or not any of the archive's content has been
extracted already.

After you have put too many files into the table, you may remove some or
all of them. Use the "Remove" or "Remove all" commands from the Edit menu.
"Remove" will only remove the files that are selected.

Instead of removing files, you could also prevent AceExpander from
processing some of them. Select those files that you do not want to be
processed and use the "Unqueue" command from the Edit menu. The items
will be marked with the state "Skip". Note: "Unqueue" only works for
files that have the state "Queued".

If you accidentally click on the "Expand selected" button a second time,
after archives have already been expanded, nothing happens. This is
because AceExpander only processes files that have the state "Queued",
and those files that have already been processed now have the state
"Success" or "Failure" (or "Aborted", if you pressed the "Cancel" button).

If you want to expand an archive a second time (e.g. because the archive
failed to expand the first time, and you have remedied the situation in
the meantime), select the archive file in the table and use the "Requeue"
command from the Edit menu. Whatever state the file is in, the command
resets it back to the state "Queued" so that you can have another go.

When an archive has failed to expand, you might get a hint about the
reason for the failure if you look at the result window (open it from
the Window menu). For the result window to display information, only
one file may be selected in the main window's table. However, you may
select any file in the table and the result window will update its
information to match that file.

The result window contains two text boxes that show the messages printed
by the unace process on the standard output and standard error,
respectively (if you do not know what these are, think of them as
"normal output" and "error output"). In case of a failure, the standard
error box may contain some useful information about the nature of the
failure.

So far the discussion was about 1) manually adding files to the table in
the main window, 2) selecting, and 3) expanding them. This process is
actually quite tedious and you will not normally operate AceExpander like
this. The more common case is that you just double-click on an ACE
archive in the Finder. AceExpander will launch, add the file to the main
window's table, and process it. After it has successfully expanded the
archive, it will terminate.

ACE archives that are double-clickable in the Finder are files that have the
extension ".ace". If you ever have an ACE archive without the extension, you
can either rename it and add the extension, or you can launch AceExpander
and process the file manually. Neither the File-Open command nor dragging
to the main window's table are restricted to files with the ".ace"
extension.

If AceExpander encounters an error after you have launched it by
double-clicking on an ACE archive in the Finder, it does not terminate
automatically. Rather it remains launched so that you may inspect the result
window to identify the error.


Preferences
-----------
An important setting that you can change in the Preferences dialog is 
the location where an archive's content should be placed upon expansion.
This location is called the destination folder. You can choose from three
locations:
- the same folder as the archive's
- a destination folder that you choose once in the Preferences dialog
- AceExpander lets you choose a destination folder each time an archive
  is expanded
You can combine these with the option to let AceExpander create a folder
for each archive that it is expanding and to place the archive's content
within that folder. This so-called "surrounding folder" is created inside
the destination folder.

If you turn on the preference item "Look into folders" and then open a
folder in AceExpander, the application will recursively scan that folder
and all its sub-folders for ACE archives. By default, it will only accept
files with the file name extension ".ace" as valid ACE archives during
such a scan, however you may turn on the preference item
"Treat all files as ACE archives" to make AceExpander accept all files.
Note: this preference item does not affect the opening of individual
files with AceExpander, the item only affects the "Look into folders"
feature.

All other items in the Preferences dialog should be self-explaining and are
not discussed in this document.

In addition to the items in the Preferences dialog, the following things are
stored in the user preferences file
(~/Library/Preferences/ch.herzbube.aceexpander.plist):

- the sizes and positions of the main window and the result window when
  the application is terminated
- whether or not the result window is visible when the application is
  terminated
- if you select "Remember as my defaults" from the Options menu, the
  current option settings are stored in the user preferences file
- the last directory you selected in the File-Open dialog
- the last items you opened in AceExpander (see the "Open Recent" sub-menu
  in the File menu)


Expand options
--------------
The following items from the Options menu pertain to the "Expand" command
of AceExpander.

- Overwrite files
  If a file is extracted from an archive, but this file already exists,
  the expansion process will fail for that archive. If you turn on the
  "Overwrite files" option, however, the expansion process will succeed,
  because any existing files will be overwritten. This is a somewhat
  dangerous option and therefore turned off by default.
  Note: due to a bug in unace the "Assume yes" option is always turned
  on automatically by AceExpander when you turn on "Overwrite files".
  When you turn off "Overwrite files" you must turn off "Assume yes"
  manually
- Extract with full path
  Use this option if the archive was created using a directory structure
  and you want to restore this directory structure. The option is turned
  on by default.
- Assume yes
  Use this option to tell unace that it should assume you would answer
  "yes" to any questions it could ask. This is especially useful for
  AceExpander, because AceExpander insulates you from unace and any
  questions it could ask: if you notice in the result window that unace
  wants to ask you questions, it might be appropriate to turn this option
  on. Because "Assume yes" takes away control from the user this option
  is turned off by default.
- Use password
  Choose this option if you need to expand an archive that contains
  password-protected files. A dialog will pop up where you can enter
  a password. If you cancel the dialog, the "Use password" option remains
  turned off. Otherwise it becomes turned on and AceExpander will remember
  to use the password you entered for all subsequent expand operations.
  Turn off the option if you want AceExpander to forget the password. This
  option is turned off by default.
  Note: the password will be passed to unace as a command line argument
  in clear text. If someone watches your system's process list that person
  might be able to catch the password as it is part of the unace command
  line. It is also possible (notably if you also turn on the option
  "Debug mode") that the password might appear in clear text in one of the
  text boxes in the result window.
- Debug mode
  This option is an AceExpander option only, it has nothing to do with
  unace. If you turn on this option, the result window will contain
  additional information in the standard output text box about the
  parameters that were used to start unace.
  Note: if the "Use password" option is also on, the password will be
  displayed in clear text in the standard output text box!!!!!


Listing and testing
-------------------
The previous sections described how AceExpander performs its main function,
i.e. expanding ACE archives. There are two more modes of operation:

- Instead of expanding an archive you may list its contents. Select the
  archive and choose the command "List content" from the Commands menu.
  The archive's contents could be listed if its processing state becomes
  "Success". The archive's contents could not be listed if its state
  becomes "Failure".
  
  The list of contents is available in its raw form in the standard output
  text box in the result window. It is however recommended to use the
  drawer on the bottom of the main window for a nicer view of the content
  list. The drawer can be toggled by the corresponding show/hide button;
  it is not visible by default.

  You may modify how the "List content" command works by turning on one
  or both of the options "Show comments" and "List verbosely". If you
  don't see any difference in the output, the archive has no comments
  and no special content that could be listed verbosely.

- Instead of expanding an archive you may test it for integrity. Select
  the archive and choose the command "Test integrity" from the Commands
  menu. The archive passes the integrity check if its processing state
  becomes "Success". The archive fails the check if its state becomes
  "Failure".


Keyboard shortcuts
------------------
- Standard Cocoa shortcuts
  Cmd-,           Open preferences
  Cmd-H           Hide application
  Cmd-Shift-H     Hide others
  Cmd-Q           Quit application
  Cmd-O           Open file
  Cmd-W           Close window
  Cmd-A           Select all items
  Cmd-M           Minimize
- AceExpander shortcuts
  Cmd-V           Show unace version
  Cmd-Shift-I     Show info in Finder for selected items
  Cmd-Shift-R     Reveal in Finder for selected items
  Cmd-E           Expand selected items
  Cmd-L           List content for selected items
  Cmd-T           Test selected items
  Cmd-R           (Re)Queue selected items
  Cmd-U           Unqueue selected items
  Backspace       Remove selected items
  Cmd-Backspace   Remove all items
  Cmd-Shift-M     Show Main Window
  Cmd-Shift-R     Show Result Window
