What is it all about
--------------------

http://www.winace.com


unace binary
------------
AceExpander packages its own version of the unace binary so that it can
be distributed and run as a stand-alone application. If you wish you
may set your own version of unace in the preferences, however you should
be aware that AceExpander may stop working properly after you make this
change, because AceExpander makes a number of assumptions about how
unace is working, which command line switches and options it uses, and
how its output on stdout is formatted.

Of course you can always change your preferences back to use the packaged
unace.


Limitations of AceExpander
--------------------------
- I developed and tested AceExpander on Mac OS X 10.2.8, so I can only
  hope that it also works on later OS versions. It definitely does
  not run on pre 10.2 systems, because the .nib file format is >= 10.2.


Limitations of unace
--------------------
- If you try to extract a password-protected file but specify an incorrect
  password, unace first extracts the encrypted file from the archive, but
  is then unable to decrypt the file, and dies. Unfortunately, the
  encrypted file is left lying around for you to clean up :-(

- If you try to extract a file without the overwrite option turned on, and
  a file with the same name already exists, unace dies with a segmentation
  fault. In combination with the above problem with password-protected
  files, this may prove to be quite nasty. Imagine this situation:
  1) In your first try to extract a password-protected file, you mistype
     the password and get an error message.
  2) In your second try, you type the correct password, but you still get
     an error message. Reason: you didn't turn on the overwrite option,
     but there is still the encrypted file from 1) lying around. After
     a couple of tries you might start to think that you have the wrong
     password, but in effect you just have to delete a file, or turn on
     overwrite.

- If you try to extract a file without the overwrite option turned on, and
  a file with the same name already exists, you must also have the
  "assume yes" option turned on, otherwise unace dies with a segmentation
  fault. AceExpander takes care of this problem for you by always turning
  on the "assume yes" option when the overwrite option is turned on.

  Technical note: the problem actually exists because of how AceExpander
  interacts with unace: when invoking unace, AceExpander explicitly sets all
  possible switches on the unace command line, even if the specified setting
  is the default for unace and therefore could be omitted (the reason why
  I coded it like this is that I did not want AceExpander to have specific
  knowledge about unace defaults; the less AceExpander knows about unace,
  the better).
  Now for the "assume yes" option: as explained, even though the option is
  turned off in the GUI, and "off" is unace's default for the switch,
  AceExpander still explicitly sets the switch on the command line to "-y-".
  Now the bug in unace is that the overwrite switch stops working as soon as
  "-y-" is set explicitly; if "-y-" is not set explicitly, the overwrite
  switch works fine.

- Most of the time when unace encounters an error, it dies with a
  segmentation fault. This is not a real problem, the error handling just
  becomes somewhat un-differentiated. If you're only using the GUI and are
  not interested in what happens under the hood of AceExpander, you can
  probably forget about this issue.


Keyboard shortcuts
------------------
- Standard Cocoa shortcuts
  Cmd-,           Open preferences
  Cmd-H           Hide application
  Cmd-Shift-H     Hide others
  Cmd-Q           Quit application
  Cmd-O           Open file
  Cmd-W           Close window
  Cmd-A           Select all items
  Cmd-M           Minimize
- AceExpander shortcuts
  Cmd-V           Show unace version
  Cmd-Shift-I     Show info in Finder for selected items
  Cmd-Shift-R     Reveal in Finder for selected items
  Cmd-E           Expand selected items
  Cmd-L           List content for selected items
  Cmd-T           Test selected items
  Cmd-R           (Re)Queue selected items
  Cmd-U           Unqueue selected items
  Backspace       Remove selected items
  Cmd-Backspace   Remove all items
  Cmd-Shift-M     Show Main Window
  Cmd-Shift-R     Show Result Window

Personal note
-------------
This is my first Cocoa Application. As such it is probably full of
shortcomings, if not bugs. If you see something that needs improvement,
please don't hesitate to let me know.

Patrick Näf <aceexpander@herzbube.ch>
